genai_cookbook/nbs/2-fundamentals-unstructured.md, before:

# RAG fundamentals

In [section 1](1-introduction-to-rag) of this guide, we introduced RAG, explained its functionality at a high level, and highlighted its advantages over standalone LLMs.

This section will introduce the key components and principles behind developing RAG applications over unstructured data. In particular, we will discuss:

1. **[Data pipeline](./2-fundamentals-unstructured-data-pipeline):** Transforming unstructured documents, such as collections of PDFs, into a format suitable for retrieval using the RAG application's **data pipeline**.
2. [**Retrieval, Augmentation, and Generation (RAG chain)**](./2-fundamentals-unstructured-chain): A series (or **chain**) of steps is called to:
    1. Understand the user's question
    2. Retrieve the supporting data
    3. Call an LLM to generate a response based on the user's question and supporting data
3. [**Evaluation**](./2-fundamentals-unstructured-eval): Assessing the RAG application to determine its quality/cost/latency to ensure it meets your business requirements.
4. [**Governance & LLMOps**](./2-fundamentals-unstructured-llmops): Tracking and managing the lifecycle of each component, including data lineage and governance (access controls).

```{image} ../images/2-fundamentals-unstructured/1_img.png
:alt: Major components of RAG over unstructured data
:align: center
```
<br/>

Commit message:

Update learn section of cookbook to Agents
Signed-off-by: Prithvi Kannan <prithvi.kannan@databricks.com>

genai_cookbook/nbs/2-fundamentals-unstructured.md, after:

# Agent fundamentals

In [section 1](1-introduction-to-rag) of this guide, we introduced Agents and RAG, explained its functionality at a high level, and highlighted its advantages over standalone LLMs.

This section will introduce the key components and principles behind developing Agent applications over unstructured data. In particular, we will discuss:

1. **[Data pipeline](./2-fundamentals-unstructured-data-pipeline):** Transforming unstructured documents, such as collections of PDFs, into a format suitable for retrieval using the Agent application's **data pipeline**.
2. [**Retrieval, Augmentation, and Generation (RAG chain)**](./2-fundamentals-unstructured-chain): A series (or **chain**) of steps is called to:
    1. Understand the user's question
    2. Retrieve the supporting data
    3. Call an LLM to generate a response based on the user's question and supporting data
3. [**Evaluation**](./2-fundamentals-unstructured-eval): Assessing the Agent application to determine its quality/cost/latency to ensure it meets your business requirements.
4. [**Governance & LLMOps**](./2-fundamentals-unstructured-llmops): Tracking and managing the lifecycle of each component, including data lineage and governance (access controls).

```{image} ../images/2-fundamentals-unstructured/1_img.png
:alt: Major components of RAG over unstructured data
:align: center
```
<br/>
