genai_cookbook/nbs/2-fundamentals-unstructured-chain.md, before:

## Retrieval, augmentation, and generation (aka RAG Chain)

Once the data has been processed by the data pipeline, it is suitable for use in the RAG application. This section describes the process that occurs once the user submits a request to the RAG application in an online setting. The series, or *chain* of steps that are invoked at inference time is commonly referred to as the RAG chain.

```{image} ../images/2-fundamentals-unstructured/3_img.png
:align: center
```
<br/>

1. **(Optional) User query preprocessing:** In some cases, the user's query is preprocessed to make it more suitable for querying the vector database. This can involve formatting the query within a template, using another model to rewrite the request, or extracting keywords to aid retrieval. The output of this step is a *retrieval query* which will be used in the subsequent retrieval step.

2. **Retrieval:** To retrieve supporting information from the vector database, the retrieval query is translated into an embedding using *the same embedding model* that was used to embed the document chunks during data preparation. These embeddings enable comparison of the semantic similarity between the retrieval query and the unstructured text chunks, using measures like cosine similarity. Next, chunks are retrieved from the vector database and ranked based on how similar they are to the embedded request. The top (most similar) results are returned.

3. **Prompt augmentation:** The prompt that will be sent to the LLM is formed by augmenting the user's query with the retrieved context, in a template that instructs the model how to use each component, often with additional instructions to control the response format. The process of iterating on the right prompt template to use is referred to as [prompt engineering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prompt_engineering).

4. **LLM Generation**: The LLM takes the augmented prompt, which includes the user's query and retrieved supporting data, as input. It then generates a response that is grounded on the additional context.

5. **(Optional) Post-processing:** The LLM's response may be processed further to apply additional business logic, add citations, or otherwise refine the generated text based on predefined rules or constraints.

As with the RAG application data pipeline, there are numerous consequential engineering decisions that can affect the quality of the RAG chain. For example, determining how many chunks to retrieve in (2) and how to combine them with the user's query in (3) can both significantly impact the model's ability to generate quality responses.

Throughout the chain, various guardrails may be applied to ensure compliance with enterprise policies. This might involve filtering for appropriate requests, checking user permissions before accessing data sources, and applying content moderation techniques to the generated responses.

Commit message:

Update learn section of genai_cookbook site to Agents (#33)
* Update learn section of cookbook to Agents

Signed-off-by: Prithvi Kannan <prithvi.kannan@databricks.com>

* link to db docs

Signed-off-by: Prithvi Kannan <prithvi.kannan@databricks.com>

* fix

Signed-off-by: Prithvi Kannan <prithvi.kannan@databricks.com>

* agent with tool

Signed-off-by: Prithvi Kannan <prithvi.kannan@databricks.com>

* rag to agents

Signed-off-by: Prithvi Kannan <prithvi.kannan@databricks.com>

* fix

Signed-off-by: Prithvi Kannan <prithvi.kannan@databricks.com>

* fix

Signed-off-by: Prithvi Kannan <prithvi.kannan@databricks.com>

* fix

Signed-off-by: Prithvi Kannan <prithvi.kannan@databricks.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Prithvi Kannan <prithvi.kannan@databricks.com>

genai_cookbook/nbs/2-fundamentals-unstructured-chain.md, after:

## Retrieval, augmentation, and generation (aka RAG Agent)

Once the data has been processed by the data pipeline, it is suitable for use in a retriever tool. This section describes the process that occurs once the user submits a request to the agent application in an online setting.

<!-- TODO (prithvi): add this back in once updated to agents
```{image} ../images/2-fundamentals-unstructured/3_img.png
:align: center
``` -->
<br/>

1. **User query understanding**: First the agent needs to use an LLM to understand the user's query. This step may also consider the previous steps of the conversation if provided.

2. **Tool selection**: The agent will use an LLM to determine if it should use a retriever tool. In the case of a vector search retriever, the LLM will create a retriever query, which will help retriever relevant chunks from the vector database. If no tool is selected, the agent will skip to step 4 and generate the final response.

3. **Tool execution**: The agent will then execute the tool with the parameters determined by the LLM and return the output. 

4. **LLM Generation**: The LLM will then generate the final response.

As with the retriever data pipeline, there are numerous consequential engineering decisions that can affect the quality of the agent. For example, determining how many chunks to retrieve in and when to select the retriever tool can both significantly impact the model's ability to generate quality responses.

Throughout the agent, various guardrails may be applied to ensure compliance with enterprise policies. This might involve filtering for appropriate requests, checking user permissions before accessing data sources, and applying content moderation techniques to the generated responses.
