genai_cookbook/nbs/5-hands-on-improve-quality.md, before:

## **Step 5:** Root cause & iteratively fix quality issues

```{image} ../images/5-hands-on/workflow_iterate.png
:align: center
```
<br/>


**Overview**

While a basic RAG chain is relatively straightforward to implement, refining it to consistently produce high-quality outputs is often non-trivial. Identifying the root causes of issues and determining which levers of the solution to pull to improve output quality requires understanding the various components and their interactions.

Simply vectorizing a set of documents, retrieving them via semantic search, and passing the retrieved documents to an LLM is not sufficient to guarantee optimal results. To yield high-quality outputs, you need to consider factors such as (but not limited to) chunking strategy of documents, choice of LLM and model parameters, or whether to include a query understanding step. As a result, ensuring high quality RAG outputs will generally involve iterating over both the data pipeline (e.g., chunking) and the RAG chain itself (e.g., choice of LLM).

This step is divided into 2 sub-steps:

```{tableofcontents}
```

Commit message:

Link fixes and code callouts

genai_cookbook/nbs/5-hands-on-improve-quality.md, after:

## **Step 5:** Root cause & iteratively fix quality issues

```{image} ../images/5-hands-on/workflow_iterate.png
:align: center
```
<br/>


**Overview**

While a basic RAG chain is relatively straightforward to implement, refining it to consistently produce high-quality outputs is often non-trivial. Identifying the root causes of issues and determining which levers of the solution to pull to improve output quality requires understanding the various components and their interactions.

Simply vectorizing a set of documents, retrieving them via semantic search, and passing the retrieved documents to an LLM is not sufficient to guarantee optimal results. To yield high-quality outputs, you need to consider factors such as (but not limited to) chunking strategy of documents, choice of LLM and model parameters, or whether to include a query understanding step. As a result, ensuring high quality RAG outputs will generally involve iterating over both the data pipeline (e.g., chunking) and the RAG chain itself (e.g., choice of LLM).

```{admonition} [Code Repository](https://github.com/databricks/genai-cookbook/tree/main/rag_app_sample_code)
:class: tip
You can find all of the sample code referenced throughout this section [here](https://github.com/databricks/genai-cookbook/tree/main/rag_app_sample_code).
```

This step is divided into 2 sub-steps:

```{tableofcontents}
```
